today we'll present the option trading
strategy or in condos these are a very
good and commonly used strategy iron
condors consists of two vertical spreads
and vertical spreads are characterized
for having the same number of long as
short options on the same underlying
with the same expiration date but with a
different strike prices there are two
different types of iron condors they are
short and long iron condors in this
video I will present both of them a big
difference between these two strategies
is the opening process short iron
condors are open for credit
this means you receive money when
opening short iron condors and long iron
condors on the other hand are opened for
a debit so you have to pay to the amount
paid or received is also called premium
just like name implies short iron
condors are an overall short stress tree
whereas long iron condors are an overall
long strategy but more on that later
in my previous strategy breakdown video
I presented credit spreads and mentioned
debit spreads iron condors are nothing
else than a combination of either two
credit spreads or two debit spreads
short iron condors are neutral or range
band strategy and long iron condors are
prized in different strategy I will
discuss the exact meaning of that a
little later in this video
this is how the payoff diagrams look
like the orange line shows the payoff of
the strategy at expiration and the blue
line shows the payoff sometime before
the expiration date the setup of a short
iron Condor is basically exactly the
same as the setup of blue put credit
spread and a barracuda credit spread so
you buy one out of the money put sell
one out of the money put at a highest
right buyers then you sell one out of
the money call and buy one out of the
money call a few strikes above that
and the difference between the strike
prices of the puts should be the same
that of the calls and the green crosses
on the payoff show the payoff at the
position of the long options and
the red one shows the position of the
short of the options the setup of a long
iron Condor is just the setup of the
short iron Condor but inverted so
instead of the long options being on the
outside the short options are and out of
the money short put and out of the money
long put the highest right price and out
of the money long cool and in fact
finally another out of the money short
call at a higher strike the easiest way
to understand this is to look at the
payoff diagram and the crosses let's
move on to the profit and loss of iron
condors as visible on the payoff diagram
of short iron condors they don't profit
from a move in a certain direction as
long as the underlying price doesn't
move too much they will be profitable
but in the case of a big move they will
end at a loss max profit is achieved if
the underlying price stays between the
short strikes
whereas max loss is achieved if the
price moves and stays beyond one of the
strike prices of the long options this
is the other way around for long iron
condors as these profit from a move in a
big move in any direction they'll end at
a loss if the price does not move enough
in a given time frame max profit is
achieved if the price moves further than
the short strikes and max loss occurs if
the price moves less than the long
strikes but both of these strategies
have limited risk and limited profit
potential no matter what happens with
the price of the underlying asset the
shreds won't profit more than a set
amount now I want to present you what
exactly effects max loss and max profit
and how you can calculate this if you're
trading in a broker platform any broker
will show you what your
Slauson mecca's profit will be if your
broker does not do that I recommend
changing broker it is nevertheless
always a good idea to be aware of what
influences your max profit and Max loss
you need to do two calculations to find
out the max loss and profit
the first is premium - Commission's and
the second calculation is little bit
longer it is with the width of the
strikes multiplied by 100 - the premium
and plus commissions I will explain
these calculations with an example in a
moment so don't worry if you don't
understand them yet the result of the
first calculation is the max profit of
the short iron Condor and the max loss
of the long iron Condor thus the second
calculation is unsurprisingly the max
loss of the short iron Condor and the
max profit of the long iron Condor for
our example I will choose two strikes
92 and 95 for the puts and 105 and 108
for the cause the premium received or
paid is $72 note that I only wrote 0.72
dollars and that is also the reason why
there's a multiplication by 100 in the
second calculation option prices are
stated in quantities of 1 but normal
options always control 100 shares of an
underlying therefore you always have to
multiply that that price by 100 I will
neglect commissions in our example as
they don't contribute to the
understanding of these calculations the
result of the first calculation is
therefore just the premium so the max
profit for the short iron Condor is
nothing else than the net premium taken
in so $72 this is also the max loss for
our long iron Condor the second
calculation is a little bit more
complicated
first of all we'll have to find out what
the width of the strikes is
the width is the difference between the
strikes of either the puts or the calls
so the difference between 95 and 92 and
our example the width is us $3 the width
should always be the same on both sides
in other words the width between the
protean same as the width between cores
the next step is multiplying these three
dollars by 100 then we have $300 now all
that's left is subtracting the premium
from that so $72 from this the result is
228 dollars this is the max loss of our
short iron Condor and the max gain of
the long iron Condor as you can see the
risk to reward ratio is much better for
the long iron Condor but this is
compensated by something else that I
will talk and present to you very soon
now the only point left to find out are
the break-even points luckily these
aren't hard to find out all you have to
do is add the credit or the debit to the
inner core and subtract the credit or
the debit from the inner put in this
example the two inner options are the
ones with the shrikes 105 at 95 after
adding and subtracting 0.72 dollars we
found out that the break-even points are
105 point seven two dollars and ninety
four point two eight dollars the further
the two vertical spreads are apart from
each other the greater the result of the
second calculation becomes this means
that max loss becomes bigger for short
iron condors and max profit increases
for long iron condors wider iron Condor
will also lead to less premium taken in
or paid this is a good thing for long
iron condors as they are cheaper but a
bad thing for short iron condors as they
take in less credit
another way to increase the premium is
to increase the width of each side on
each side these calculations may seem
complicated therefore you can be happy
about the fact that you practically
never will have to do them yourself once
again your broker should always show you
these numbers let us speak about the
market assumption for iron condors next
both these strategies are neutral
strategies as neither of them profits
from a move in a certain direction but
they both still are a different kind of
neutral strategies short iron condors
are range bound strategies meaning that
they profit if the underlying price
stays in a range and the long iron
Condor is surprised in different
strategy which means that it doesn't
matter in which direction the underlying
price will move as long as it moves
hopefully this makes sense but to
understand it even better we will take
place closer look at the payoff diagrams
I'll begin with that of a short iron
Condor as you can see the price of the
underlying can either move up a little
down Alysha or stay exactly the same all
of these scenarios will lead to max
profit so iron condors do have quite a
big profitable range
this makes them rather high probability
option strategies this is also what I
meant with a compensation for the poor
risk to reward ratio long iron condors
on the other hand will end at a max
profit if the underlying price makes a
big move this doesn't happen that often
if the price only moves a little in
either direction a long iron Condor will
still end at a loss
therefore long iron condors usually are
lower probability strategy that short
iron condors the further the options of
a short iron Condor are out of the money
the higher the probability of profit
as the prophethood range increases even
further the opposite is the case for a
long iron condor another very important
aspect to consider when trading iron
condors are the Greeks I published a
video on options pricing and degrees not
too long ago you may want to check it
out if you don't know what the Greeks
are I will leave a link in the video
description below to check it out after
this video the short options are closest
to the underlying trading price for
short iron condors and thus they are
more dominant there for short iron
condors are an over a short strategy
this is the other way around for long
iron condors and thus they are an
overall long strategy this table shows
the impact of the Greeks on different
option positions and I divided it into
short and long options the short options
are the relevant ones for the short iron
Condor and the long options are the
relevant ones for the long iron Condor
now I walk you through the impact of
each week on the two strategies let's
start with Delta Delta measures the
change of the options price for one
dollar move up in the underlying so
obviously a short put will profit from a
move up and a short call will lose value
from that move
therefore the plus and the minus
furthermore a long haul will profit from
this move up whereas a long put will
lose some value so Delta is normally
somewhere near zero for iron condors as
they don't profit from a move in a
specific direction the impact of the
remaining Greece is the same for both
short and both long options Vega
measures the change of the options price
for a move up and implied volatility or
IV a minus indicates loss of value in
short options for a rise in implied
volatility and the
Plus means that this position will
profit from a rise in IV this also means
that short positions were profit from a
drop and implied volatility to profit
from implied volatility it is a good
idea to enter short iron condors in
times of high volatility and long iron
condors in terms of low volatility to
recognize how high or how low volatility
currently is you can use IV rank IV rank
shows the current state of IV compared
to historical figures of the same
underlying asset theater also known as
time decay this is a very important
Creek it measures the change in the
options price for time passing by a plus
symbolizes again and a minus a loss the
short positions have the cloth which
means that short iron condors literally
profit just from time passing by if the
underlying price doesn't move at all
Iren condos would profit from time decay
long iron condos on the other hand lose
money from this time decay the amount of
time decay doesn't change in a linear
way but becomes higher the closer you
get to expiration in other words the
amount of iron condors profit or lose
from time decay becomes higher the
closer you get to expiration
the last relevant Greek is gamma and it
measures the rate of change of Delta a
large gamma means that Delta will change
very rapidly and that the options price
will lose more and more of its value for
every $1 move in the wrong direction
furthermore the profit for every $1 move
of the underlying in the correct
direction will become smaller and
smaller gamma increases the closer to
the positions are expiration and all can
be disregarded
for now it is only relevant for very
long-term option positions now let us
look at some example iron condors I have
an example for both short and long iron
condors this first example is an example
of a short iron condor on spui a very
liquid ETF tracking the S&P 500 at the
time of entry SPO I was trading for
around two hundred and forty seven
dollars the Schwartz rikes for this iron
condor where two hundred forty to fifty
one and two and forty three the blue
lines are the positions of these short
strikes the entire range between these
two blue lines is the max profit zone as
you can see spwhy was actually quite
volatile volatile and there were some
respectful price swings in that time
nevertheless there these price swings
weren't big enough to create a loss in
this iron condor except for a very short
time the price was in the profitable
zone all the time in my opinion this
shows the high probability aspect of
short iron condors my next and final
example is a long iron condor in QQQ
this time the long strikes were 129 and
135 and QQQ was trading for around 1 @
31.5 dollars the blue lines once again
represent the strikes and everything
beyond these where the max profit zone
as visible the price of the underlying
made quite a big move in a relative
short period of time and it didn't pull
back thus leading to a profit in the
long iron Condor
last but not least I want to give you
some of my personal tips that I use and
that I learned from my trading so far I
will begin with the short iron condors
short iron condors are in my opinion
a very good strategy there are a neutral
version of the very good strategy credit
spreads additionally they are a high
probability strategy and ideal for high
probability options selling I recommend
trading short iron condos at a
probability of profit of around 70% so
don't go too far or too little out of
the money it is important to always take
in a certain amount of credit before it
even is worth it so no matter in what
account you are you should always take
in at least $40 of credit for bigger
positions it is a very good idea to send
out a good to the Consul take profit
order at about 50 percent of max profit
as it's often not worth the wait for the
remaining profit just like I said
earlier try to enter short iron condors
when Ivy is higher so when IV rank is
over 50 finally I had the best
experience with entering iron condors
around 30 to 45 days before expiration
but this can easily be changed a little
now let us move on to long iron condors
long iron condors are good for big
expected moves this can happen during
special events or announcements so iron
condors can be used when you expect the
underlying to move big but you don't
know in which direction the more narrow
your long iron Condor is the higher the
probability of profit for it becomes
optimally you should enter your iron
condors in a low IV and mop environment
so when IV rank is below 50 but honestly
I do not have a lot of experience with
long iron condors as I just really don't
trade them
I prefer short iron condors over long
iron condors that is mainly due to the
high probability
aspect of them if you want to know how
to specifically set up iron condors in a
broker platform I will leave a link to a
video presenting that in the description
below but for now I really hope that you
enjoyed this video and learned a lot if
you want to learn more about iron
condors other option strategies or just
trading in general you can check out my
website trade options with me calm I
only offer 100% free education on
options the market and more hopefully
I'll see you there otherwise tell me
what strategy you want me to present
next and don't forget to leave a like
and subscribe for more trading videos
like this one thanks for watching
you